---
layout: status
title: Slow page loading on pro07
status: resolved
category: DrupalCONCEPT
severity: high
---
<p><strong>ISSUE:</strong> Loading pages from websites hosted on our &nbsp;DrupalCONCEPT PRO/shared cluster <strong>pro07</strong> take long time to get delivered.</p>
<p><strong>CAUSE:</strong> We're experiencing very high load on the server and are analyzing the cause.</p>
<p><strong>UPDATE 22:19h:</strong> We suspect that there are thermic problems with the server and are waiting for the datacenter staff to check.</p>
<p><strong>UPDATE 22:25h:</strong> Datacenter operations checked for thermic problems, but didn't find any.</p>
<p><strong>UPDATE 23:10h:</strong> Failover to the standby node of the cluster did not change the system&nbsp;behaviour, the load problems seem to affect the standby node as well.</p>
<p><strong>UPDATE 00:42h (2011-09-09):</strong> So far, we have not found any conclusive cause for the load problem.</p>
<p><strong>UPDATE 16:49:</strong> While the system worked fine during the day, we've just experienced high load on the system again. All Apache processes were busy, rendering the web server unable to answer new requests. We also noticed that, suddenly, all database connections got used up (we had increased the connection limit already yesterday). We again increased Apache and MySQL resources and will analyze which websites are most resource hungry.&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>CLOSE&nbsp;2011-09-14:</strong>&nbsp;We found that the performance problems were caused by database load spikes. A small number of customer websites made very expensive queries (mostly generated by Drupal Views). Those queries caused a lot of database load with an especially negative impact on databases with MyISAM tables because MyISAM does a lot of table locking. (One of the reasons our database servers are <a href="https://freistil.zendesk.com/entries/20312466">optimized for InnoDB</a>). We contacted the respective customers and while they optimized their Views, we converted their MyISAM tables to InnoDB. We now see the database work much smoother and are confident that website operations will further meet our high quality standards.</p>
