---
layout: status
title: Disk failure on VM host vm8
date: 2012-07-04 21:16:45 +0200
published: true
tags: disk,vm8,power12,power13,power15,power16,m17
category: DrupalCONCEPT
severity: high
status: resolved
---

#### ISSUE:

We've experienced a double disk failure on VM host vm8. This impacts the following servers:

* power12.drupalconcept.net
* power13.drupalconcept.net
* power15.drupalconcept.net
* power16.drupalconcept.net
* m17.topcluster.net


#### CAUSE:

Failure of 1 disk of a 2-disk RAID-1 array, followed by the failure of the second disk during the RAID resync process.


#### TIMELINE:

* [21:20 CET] Incident opened. 
* [23:43 CET] The disk has been replaced.
* [00:15 CET (2012-07-05)] The system and its VMs are running with decreased performance due to the RAID rebuild.
* [00:30 CET] Rebuild is progressing ok and will probably be finished in the morning.
* [00:42 CET] We are noticing errors also on the primary disk. Starting emergency backups.
* [02:30 CET] The file systems seem to be irreparable. We'll rebuild the servers from their backups.
* [08:18 CET] We're rebuilding the servers on a new VM host. This makes a change of IP addresses necessary; the new addresses will be:
  * power12: 5.9.241.210
  * power13: 5.9.241.211
  * power15: 5.9.241.214
  * power16: 5.9.241.215
  * m17: 5.9.241.212
* [10:49 CET] power16 is operational again.
* [11:35 CET] power15 is operational again.
* [11:42 CET] power13 is operational again.
* [12:05 CET] power12 is operational again.
* [13:58 CET] m17 is operational again. All urgent tasks are finished now.

**Please contact us at support@freistil.it if there are still issues with your server.**

We sincerely apologize to all customers that were impacted by this outage and data loss. We'll do a detailed post mortem for this incident which we will post on our blog at http://www.freistil.it/blog.
